# Steps for creating YouTube videos

## MVP Edit

The following tasks will get the video to MVP publishing status where you can move the brownbag issue to [the "Published" column](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/VC-Events/projects/6#column-13081364) in [the "Post-Production" project board](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/VC-Events/projects/6).

- [ ] Upload raw footage to YouTube.
- [ ] Trim raw footage from beginning/end using YouTube Studio's editing UI.
- [ ] Select the newly uploaded video and complete the "Video details" fields which include:
  - [ ] Title
  - [ ] Description, including:
    - [ ] The talk description
    - [ ] The speaker bio
  - [ ] Thumbnail
    - Upload the intro card file, or choose an appropriate frame from the video.
  - [ ] Set the video privacy as appropriate.
  - [ ] Add video to the appropriate playlist(s).
  - [ ] Add keyword tags.
  - [ ] Set "Languages, subtitles, and closed captions (CC)" as:
    - [ ] Video language: English (United States)
    - [ ] Caption certification: This content has never aired on television in the U.S.
    - [ ] Title and description language: English
  - [ ] Set the recording date.
  - [ ] Leave the location blank.
  - [ ] Use the "Standard YouTube License."
  - [ ] Set "Comments and ratings" as:
    - [ ] Comment visibility: Hold potentially inappropriate comments for review
    - [ ] Sort by: Top
    - [ ] Check "Show how many viewers like and dislike this video"
- [ ] Add the YouTube video link to the main GitHub issue for the brownbag talk.

## Final Edit

The following tasks will get the video to MVP publishing status where you can move the brownbag issue to [the "Completed" column](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/VC-Events/projects/6#column-13081363) in [the "Post-Production" project board](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/VC-Events/projects/6).

- [ ] Select the "Subtitles" tab to add the video subtitles.
  - [ ] English should already be listed as a language. Click the "DUPLICATE AND EDIT" link in the rightmost column. Accept the warning that your current subtitles will be overwritten.
  - [ ] You'll see a pop-up window with default subtitles generated by YouTube. Click the "ASSIGN TIMINGS" button. This breaks the text into pieces that will display on the screen over certain time spans.
  - [ ] Go through the text to correct spelling and add punctuation (click "EDIT AS TEXT" to switch back to the large block of text if that's easier), then watch through the video with the edited captions to make sure they're displaying across the screen at the correct timings.
- [ ] Note time points in the talk where there are natural breaks/transitions between topics so they can be converted into Youtube chapters for easy viewer access.
  - More on [YouTube chapters](https://www.tubics.com/blog/youtube-chapters/) and how they work.
- [ ] Add links to the Speaker's slides, resources, and other shared materials in the talk description.
- [ ] Add the YouTube video link to the main GitHub issue for the brownbag talk.
