# February Monthly Challenge

## Theme

Show your work! Creating Audio/Visual content

## Goals

- To present your knowledge and showcase your understanding
- To explore video and audio mediums for sharing knowledge
- To highlight your achievements
- To promote growth through sharing

## How It Works

- For the month of February we're asking members to submit brownbags, youtube videos, podcasts, or some other form of audio of video content they created that explores a coding-related concept--there's no length requirement
- On February 26th, we'll have a day of lightning talks where folks can showcase their talents and abilities.
- We encourage you to post your ideas, questions, and even your fears in slack. We're all learning and growing together!</li>
  <li>Keep in mind that we know that sharing can be hard, but it also provides a ton of value by:
    <ul>
      <li>Solidifying ideas.</li>
      <li>Allows you to be a resource for others.</li>
      <li>Invites personal growth through conversations sparked by your sharing.</li>
      <li>Demonstrates your ability to talk through a concept</li>
    </ul>
    </li>
    <ul>
     <li>
    On February 26th, we'll wrap up our challenge with lightning talks and have a space for members to sumbit their own AV content on our site.

  </li>
  <li>
    And remember, we're always here to help ❤️
  </li>
  </ul>

## Infrastructure Needed

- Lightning talk day prep (Admin available to moderate, host, handle stream setup and comms)
- Brownbag admin member availability for brownbag days (standard zoom + zencastr setup)
- Website update with space for folks to add their topics and links
