# Monthly Challenge June 2021

## Theme

Build In Public

## Description

VC Members who participate will build a project or improve an existing one, and share their progress on the social platform of their choice.

## Goals

The idea is to learn to communicate around a project, show the development process, give confidence and learn to be proud of any progress made.

## How it works

The month will be separated in 4 weeks:

- Define and set goals: decide what you want to create or add, define what is the scope and the result you want to reach at the end of the month.
- Start working: Once your project defined you can start building. Share and celebrate your progress.
- Reach your goal: Do you need to adjust the scope? Do you have time for a new feature. Finish your project.
- Present: Be proud, share what you have done, what you have learned.

## FAQ

### Who participates?

Virtual Coffee's goal is to support all developers, no matter where they are in their coding journey. We encourage all members to participate.
This challenge can be done alone or in a group.

### How to share my progress?

Share your progress in the #monthly-challenge channel in Slack. While no other platform is imposed, it can be a good idea to also share on social media for more reach
but only if you are comfortable to do so (Twitter using -or not- the hastag #buildinpublic, a personnal blog, a post on DEV.to, ...).

Sharing everytime some work is added is a good idea, small progress is still progress. No need to write a detailed blog post: a 140 characters Tweet can be enough.
For example: "Today I added some styling. I used Bootstrap and implemented some cards to display the users in the home page".

### What if I need help?

You can ask a question in the #help-and-pairing VC channel, get 1:1 help during Office Hours (check #office-hours channel), join the VC coworking room...
Asking for help is part of the process.
